# “Stay Whelmed”: 4 Questions Before “Young Justice: Outsiders”

*Written by Brandon C. Kesselly
(*[@bckesso](https://twitter.com/bckesso?lang=en)*)*

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1200/0*yNGx5ZMqYyI7QMIa)

After six long years, *Young Justice* has finally returned! Dubbed *Young
Justice: Outsiders*, the critically-acclaimed series’ third season will adapt
elements of *Batman and the Outsiders* (1983–87), while continuing its trend of
remixing DC Comics history. With this in mind, here are my top 4 questions
before season 3!

**Note: This list contains spoilers for the first two seasons, as well as
currently released promotional material for season three. Please read at your
own risk!**

### Which Characters Haven’t Been Announced?

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1200/0*6mPPmbBXteiDcA7Y)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Photo courtesy of Warner Bros and DC Comics.</span>

*Young Justice *has a tradition of taking obscure characters and making them
into series staples. When folks would have expected [Deathstroke the
Terminator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deathstroke) and his daughter
[Ravager](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ravager_(DC_Comics)) to be mainstays, we
were instead given [Sportsmaster](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sportsmaster)
and *his* daughter [Cheshire](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheshire_(comics))
as antagonists (though Deathstroke would debut in season two). *Outsiders *looks
to add comic characters like
[Geo-Force](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geo-Force),
[Halo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halo_(comics)), and
[Forager](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forager_(comics)) as well as
[Spoiler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephanie_Brown_(comics)),
[Arrowette](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arrowette), and
[Thirteen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Traci_Thirteen).

Due to previous plot elements, I’m personally hoping for
[Starfire](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Starfire_(Teen_Titans)) or
[Supergirl](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supergirl). Since *Young Justice:
Invasion* (season two) introduced extraterrestrial characters, and there’s an
impending conflict with [Darkseid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darkseid) and
[Apokolips](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apokolips), I think it would be the
perfect time. I’m also hoping for Ravager, if only to witness a father-daughter
tag team match against Sportsmaster and Cheshire. Seriously, who wouldn’t want
to see that?

However, due to [Talia al Ghul’s](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talia_al_Ghul)
inclusion in the previous comics, we could also get the surprise of [Damian
Wayne](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Damian_Wayne).

### Who’s Running The Team?

<span class="figcaption_hack">Photo courtesy of Warner Bros and DC Comics.</span>

In the season one episode “Drop-Zone”,
[Robin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dick_Grayson) attempts to assume command
of the Team, arguing his wealth of experience compared to the rest of the young
heroes. However, he was also the youngest, and prone to acting without informing
the rest of the team of his plans.
[Kaldur’ahm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aqualad_(Kaldur'ahm)), the Aqualad of
the YJ continuity and a soldier in the Atlantean army, was elected The Team’s
first leader.

In *Invasion*, Kaldur leaves Nightwing (season one’s Robin) in charge while he
infiltrates his father [Black
Manta’s](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Manta) ranks to dismantle The Light
— *Young Justice’s* version of the [Legion of
Doom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legion_of_Doom). Nightwing leaves in the
season finale, and Kaldur re-assumes command with
[Batgirl](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barbara_Gordon) as his presumptive
lieutenant.

Recent news has revealed that [Kaldur has taken up the role of
Aquaman](https://ew.com/tv/2018/12/20/young-justice-first-look-new-aquaman/) in
*Outsiders *while Orin has retired to lead Atlantis and raise his child full
time. As such, Kaldur has also joined the Justice League — and is rumored to be
its new chairman as well. Who will be leading the Team in his absence?

### What is The Light’s Objective?

Through the first two seasons, [Vandal
Savage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vandal_Savage) and The Light have worked
together to mind control the Justice League, send them on a rampage in outer
space, and get them arrested while also securing the
[Warworld](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Warworld) from
[Mongul](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mongul). Their shenanigans have been the
main threat to The Team, who have disrupted their operations in Asia, the Middle
East, and South America, as well as their smuggling of Apokoliptan weapons and
their hand in the [Reach](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reach_(comics)) invasion
(including the eventual double-cross).

All of this has led to apparent metahuman trafficking — both on Earth and across
the galaxy. It has also been a part of some long-term scheme with Darkseid, who
briefly appeared with Savage in “Endgame”. With all of this in mind: What the
flying duck does The Light want? What is their goal?

In “Summit”, Kaldur seems to suggest that they want to rule the Milky Way. But
even *that* seems too small a goal for someone like Savage — or Darkseid’s
involvement, for that matter.

### Wally West: Dead or Alive?

During “Endgame”, the season two finale, Black Beetle activated a series of
magnetic field disruptors (MFDs) in order to destroy the Earth. While the Team,
the League, and a group of rescued Reach abductees worked with Lex Luthor to
disable the devices, one went off in the North Pole. At Luthor’s advice, Flash
and Impulse used their combined speed to neutralize the attack. But when the two
proved insufficient, Wally West, a founding member of the Team and the retired
Kid Flash, jumped into action to aid them. But he didn’t walk away in the
aftermath.

Wally presumably gave his life to save the world, leaving everyone in mourning.
Artemis, his long-term girlfriend, was in tears. Dick Grayson, his best friend,
took a leave of absence. But the biggest question I have is whether his death
will be permanent, or if he’ll be resurrected by the end.

If you ask me, I think it is better for him to stay dead. Let the characters
learn how to cope with his death, and show the consequences of death in this
universe. Ted Kord, Aquagirl, and Jason Todd have also died as of *Invasion*, as
well as Kent Nelson — the original Doctor Fate. Having a cast member die is not
only impactful to the audience, but to the rest of the cast. Keeping them dead
respects everyone involved while maintaining a semblance of realism in this
world of magic, alien invaders, and children who can “break the sound barrier in
[their] sneakers”. The writers have done their absolute best not to pull
victories out of thin air for the characters, and resurrection has not been
explicitly done. Besides, *Invasion* revolved around a fake out death. Letting
one die for real means it can still happen in the series.

However, Wally may have also just been transported to another dimension (please,
no Speed Force). This *is *still a comic book show, after all.

*****

Young Justice: Outsiders* debuts January 4th on DC Universe!*

*Want to keep up with The RYM?*[ Like us on
Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/risingyoungminds)*,*[ follow us on
Twitter](https://twitter.com/the_rym)*,*[ follow us on
Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/risingyoungminds/)*, or join our mailing
list below!*

* [Entertainment](https://risingyoungminds.com/tagged/entertainment?source=post)
* [Young Justice](https://risingyoungminds.com/tagged/young-justice?source=post)
* [DC Comics](https://risingyoungminds.com/tagged/dc-comics?source=post)
* [Justice League](https://risingyoungminds.com/tagged/justice-league?source=post)
* [Animation](https://risingyoungminds.com/tagged/animation?source=post)

### [Brandon C. Kesselly](https://risingyoungminds.com/@BCKesso)

Software Developer. Poet. Co-founder and Editor-in-Chief of Rising Young Minds.

### [Rising Young Minds](https://risingyoungminds.com/?source=footer_card)

Millennial Perspectives
